batteries have come a long way since the
good old days when mercury was
considered medicine wireless electricity
to power airplanes was a thing and the
first let acid batteries ruled the world
which funny enough had an energy density
of less than 40 watt hour per liter but
since its invention in 1859 batteries
were never a big hit they even tried to
use it with electric cars at the time
but these batteries weren't powerful
enough to do anything with it it would
take 120 years for batteries to get
somewhere when during the 1970s and 80s
lithium-ion technology was in the works
by John Goodenough stainle Whittingham
Rashida Asami and Akira Yoshino but the
early lithium batteries were famous for
a few problems ranging from losing
capacity with a short period of time to
bursting into flames let me put it this
way they weren't as reliable as they are
today in 1991 later my own batteries
started to be commercialized by Sony
which was one of the first companies to
have this technology and at this point
in time the energy density increased
only a little or from about 40 watt hour
per liter to about 190 30 years later
and Samsung is close to finalizing its
research towards an all solid-state
battery which delivers an unprecedented
900 watt per liter and a minimum
lifetime of a thousand cycles hold on to
your lunches my dear viewers because
things are about to get interesting
[Music]
hello everyone subject zero here
lithium is by far the best candidate for
high energy density batteries not only
is abundant in nature but in theory its
energy density of six thousand three
hundred eighty nine what our per leader
can surpass that off gasoline just to
give you an idea the energy density
provided by gasoline is at current or at
the making of this video
about fifteen point eight times more
energy dense than batteries or 9500 watt
hour per liter compared to living in my
own batteries ranging from 250 to 600 of
course if you take into account that
gasoline combustion cycle is less
efficient such that for every liter you
burn you get at most
forty percent of that energy and then
the difference drops to about six point
three times but let's go with that
assuming efficiency to be around forty
percent
side by side we can easily see why
interest in batteries increased so much
in the past decade what this means is
that if we could reach the full
potential of lithium-ion batteries the
range per charge for model three for
instance would be multiplied by almost
ten or from five hundred eighteen
kilometers to five thousand kilometers
in one charge what it also means is that
instead of having six to eight thousand
batteries we could have cars with only
one to two thousand batteries with a
range of a thousand kilometers if not
more not only that but decreasing the
number of batteries makes it safer
charge is faster and is more
environmentally friendly but that is
only possible with solid-state batteries
and we all know that there are mainly
two problems with them the first one is
dendrites which causes volume expansion
ultimately causing the battery to fail
or even burst then we have the local
ohmic efficiency which causes the
battery to degrade faster having a lower
life cycle and let's not even enter the
discussion of how complicated it is to
work with lithium any contact with
oxygen hugs and kisses to your right
hand what Samsung claims to have
achieved is the end of all of that their
recent article in Nature explains how
they created a battery with 900 watt
hour per liter and a thousand cycles
this
represents a 50% improvement in terms of
energy density while more than 200% of
battery life cycle how they achieved
disk is fascinating
Samsung research was led by young gang
Lee for an all solid-state battery their
goal was to eliminate dendrites
formation and increase columbic
efficiency to do that they send which
layers of lithium nickel cobalt
manganese oxide mixed with a sulfide
solid electrolyte on top of a nano
composite layer of silver carbon all of
this is located in between a foil of
aluminum and stainless steel as the
current collectors the idea behind this
was to remove lithium foil from the mix
and have all lithium atoms part of the
NMC or the SS II this approach
diminishes the cost of the overall
battery manufacturing since handling
lithium usually needs an oxygen-free
environment due to its higher reactivity
this is important for a few reasons in
conventional lithium batteries the anode
comprised of lithium moves freely
towards the positive electrode during
discharge dendrites are formed during
the charging process when Liam moves
back to its initial location thanks to
the free movement enabled by liquid or
gel electrolyte this is the main
limiting factor of how much energy can
be stored in these batteries since to
control this the amount of lithium
available in the system has to be kept
limiting the energy density the sulfide
solid electrolyte approach guys leave
him back and forth with a little help
from silver in a uniform manner allowing
the atom to be deposited in flat layers
with little to no chance of dendrites
forming nice right but Samsung took this
idea a step further
most solid-state battery technologies
proposed to date have some sort of Nano
matrix layer compound like silica for
instance that is used to absorb lithium
ions by removing this layer and having
only silver atoms playing the part of
the matrix to guide the ions you can
effectively introduce more cathode into
the mix increasing the overall energy
density of the battery or 900 + what
hours per liter this approach also
increases battery lifetime efficiency by
200%
in this scenario all lithium in this
system is allocated within the NMC
molecules comprising the cathode of the
system here there is no anode and the
stingless still sheet works as the
current collector to drive the reaction
so the batter is initially in a
discharged state when the batter is
being charged lithium ions pass through
the carbon layer attaching themselves to
silver atoms this in turn promotes a
better connection of the lithium layer
onto the stainless steel current
collector what you get in the end is a
clean sheet of lithium silver free of
dendrites this cycle can be repeated
more than a thousand times flawlessly
Samsung solved many problems here but
one of them stands out and that is the
construction of the battery by having
only the NMC cathode embedded into a
solid electrolyte and separated by the
Nano layer of silver carbon it
eliminates the need for oxygen free
environment necessary for the
construction of the battery ultimately
reducing cost although this is a huge
gain the impact on price for these new
batteries is yet to be seen but we know
for sure that at least 35% of the final
cost is due to manufacturing overhead
which includes energy costs research and
development production sales and so on
then we have the remaining costs
attributed to materials alone comprising
60% of the final price as I mentioned in
an older video of mine cobalt and Nico
are to blame since prices are increasing
due to the high demand for these
elements as why most companies are
trying to move away from these elements
but it's safe to assume the Samsung may
have used NMC here just to test the
concept and acquire real-world numbers
from this first prototype at this point
is still unclear where Samsung intends
to use these batteries but one thing is
for sure they still need more research
and development so they can get rid of
the nickel and cobalt if they achieve
this then they will have the triple
crown breakthrough cheap elements high
energy density and a long life time
cycle and that is when we'll finally
have a dramatic drop in battery prices
overall this is a huge step forward for
solid-state batteries and we can safely
say that we are closer and closer to an
electric future alright folks that's it
we're done here
[Music]
you